(Docs+) Flush out Resource+Task troubleshooting (#111773)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/troubleshooting/common-issues/task-queue-backlog.asciidoc

[source,console]
----
GET /_cat/thread_pool?v&s=t,n&h=type,name,node_name,active,queue,rejected,completed
----

The `active` and `queue` statistics are instantaneous while the `rejected` and
`completed` statistics are cumulative from node startup.

**Inspect the hot threads on each node**

If a particular thread pool queue is backed up, you can periodically poll the
<<cluster-nodes-hot-threads,Nodes hot threads>> API to determine if the thread
has sufficient resources to progress and gauge how quickly it is progressing.

[source,console]
----
GET /_nodes/hot_threads
----

**Look for long running node tasks**

Long-running tasks can also cause a backlog. You can use the <<tasks,task
management>> API to get information about the node tasks that are running.
Check the `running_time_in_nanos` to identify tasks that are taking an
excessive amount of time to complete.

[source,console]
----
GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true
----

If a particular `action` is suspected, you can filter the tasks further. The most common long-running tasks are <<docs-bulk,bulk index>>- or search-related.

* Filter for <<docs-bulk,bulk index>> actions:
+
[source,console]
----

> GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true&actions=indices:data/write/bulk

Reviewer: Likewise

```suggestion
GET /_tasks?human&detailed&actions=indices:data/write/bulk
```

----

* Filter for search actions:
+
[source,console]
----

> GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true&actions=indices:data/write/search

Reviewer: Likewise

```suggestion
GET /_tasks?human&detailed&actions=indices:data/write/search
```

Check the `running_time_in_nanos` to identify tasks that are taking an
excessive amount of time to complete.

[source,console]
----
GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true
----

If a particular `action` is suspected, you can filter the tasks further. The most common long-running tasks are <<docs-bulk,bulk index>>- or search-related.

* Filter for <<docs-bulk,bulk index>> actions:
+
[source,console]
----
GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true&actions=indices:data/write/bulk
----

* Filter for search actions:
+
[source,console]
----
GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true&actions=indices:data/write/search
----

The API response may contain additional tasks columns, including `description` and `header`, which provides the task parameters, target, and requestor. You can use this information to perform further diagnosis.

**Look for long running cluster tasks**

A task backlog might also appear as a delay in synchronizing the cluster state. You
can use the <<cluster-pending,cluster pending tasks API>> to get information
about the pending cluster state sync tasks that are running. 

[source,console]
----

> GET /_cluster/pending_tasks?detailed

Reviewer 2: this is erroring out in the tests:

>   1>             "reason" : "request [/_cluster/pending_tasks] contains unrecognized parameter: [detailed]",

Author: ```suggestion
GET /_cluster/pending_tasks
```

[[task-queue-backlog]]
=== Task queue backlog

A backlogged task queue can prevent tasks from completing and put the cluster
into an unhealthy state. Resource constraints, a large number of tasks being
triggered at once, and long running tasks can all contribute to a backlogged
task queue.

[discrete]
[[diagnose-task-queue-backlog]]
==== Diagnose a task queue backlog

**Check the thread pool status**

A <<high-cpu-usage,depleted thread pool>> can result in

> <<rejected-requests,rejected requests>>. This may surface restricted to a
> <<data-tiers,data tier>>'s traffic, potentially with <<hotspotting,hot spotting>>
> symptoms.

Reviewer 2: a similar sentiment was confusing on the other page and prob needs a similar solution. took some liberties here and perhaps injected some incorrect content

```suggestion
<<rejected-requests,rejected requests>>. 

Thread pool depletion might be restricted to a specific <<data-tiers,data tier>> if that tier, and therefore the nodes assigned to that tier, is experiencing more traffic than other tiers. This imbalance in resource utilization is also known as <<hotspotting,hot spotting>>.
```

Author: The Hot Spotting Elastic discusses or is concerned about is node(s) within a data tier not across data tiers. Lower data tiers are generally expected to be cold-spotted compared to earlier tiers.

Author: Sorry I realize my statement was confusing but don't know how to help myself. 

An example of a depleted thread pool which is expected is that the majority of write requests process into hot nodes. If bulk requests are spread even across the hot nodes, it is still possible to fully fill up their queue. This is what "thread pool depletion" was trying to call out before me.  However, something Support sees frequently is when hot spotting does occur, a node within the hot tier gets depleted while the others don't. This still slows ingest and/or potentially cluster & needs to be looked at / resolved. In this example, the problem happens only within hot tier and we would not care how warm/cold/frozen was doing compared to hot because the work they do is different.

You can use the <<cat-thread-pool,cat thread pool API>> to see the number of
active threads in each thread pool and how many tasks are queued, how many
have been rejected, and how many have completed.

[source,console]
----
GET /_cat/thread_pool?v&s=t,n&h=type,name,node_name,active,queue,rejected,completed
----

The `active` and `queue` statistics are instantaneous while the `rejected` and

> `completed` statistics are cumulative from node start up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`completed` statistics are cumulative from node startup.
```

**Inspect the hot threads on each node**

If a particular thread pool queue is backed up, you can periodically poll the
<<cluster-nodes-hot-threads,Nodes hot threads>> API to determine if the thread
has sufficient resources to progress and gauge how quickly it is progressing.

[source,console]
----
GET /_nodes/hot_threads
----

**Look for long running node tasks**

Long-running tasks can also cause a backlog. You can use the <<tasks,task
management>> API to get information about the node tasks that are running.
Check the `running_time_in_nanos` to identify tasks that are taking an
excessive amount of time to complete.

[source,console]
----
GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true
----

> If a particular `action` is suspected, you can filter in further. Most common are: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a particular `action` is suspected, you can filter the tasks further. The most common long-running tasks are <<docs-bulk,bulk index>>- or search-related.
```

> * <<docs-bulk,bulk index>> related

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Filter for <<docs-bulk,bulk index>> actions:
```

+
[source,console]
----
GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true&actions=indices:data/write/bulk
----

> * search related

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Filter for search actions:
```

+
[source,console]
----
GET /_tasks?pretty=true&human=true&detailed=true&actions=indices:data/write/search
----

> Note the API response may contain tasks columns `description` and `header` 
> which enable futher diagnosising task parameters, target, and requestor. 

Reviewer 2: always avoid the phrase "note that" as it doesn't add anything. if something is especially noteworthy, you can use a note block to call it out in a little box.

`NOTE: blah blah`

```suggestion
The API response may contain additional tasks columns, including `description` and `header`, which provides the task parameters, target, and requestor. You can use this information to perform further diagnosis.
```

**Look for long running cluster tasks**

> Back up may also surface as a delay in synchronizing the cluster state. You

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A task backlog might also appear as a delay in synchronizing the cluster state. You
```

can use the <<cat-pending-tasks,cat pending tasks API>> to get information
about the pending cluster state sync tasks that are running. 

[source,console]
----

> GET /_cat/pending_tasks?v=true

Reviewer: This is a totally different API, and I don't think the pending tasks queue has anything to do with task queue backlog. I know the names are confusing in this area.

Author: Thanks, Dave! I agree with your call out. 💚

I don't know what's wrong with Github's diff but I did not mix up these APIs. Screenshot of branch from Sublime where I did change the first & then later added the second: 
<img width="540" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/03d6c2ae-e44f-41c1-9039-5999a8d46cf4">

Reviewer: I see, ok, yeah the Github diff UI isn't showing this very well. Could we point users to the `GET /_cluster/pending_tasks?detailed` API rather than the cat API, aligning with the usage of the `GET /_tasks` API above.
